[MUSIC]
Hi, in this video we will discuss
a little bit of dataset cleaning and
see how to check if dataset is shuffled.
It is important to understand that
the competition data can be only apart of
the data organizers have.
The organizers could give us
a fraction of objects they have or
a fraction of features.
And that is why we can have
some issues with the data.
For example, we can encounter a feature
which takes the same value for
every object in both train and test set.
This could be due to
the sampling procedure.
For example, the future is a year, and
the organizers exported
us only one year of data.
So in the original data
that the organizers have,
this future is not constant, but
in the competition data it is constant.
And obviously, it is not useful for
the models and just occupy some memory.
So we are about to remove
such constant features.
In this example data set
feature of zero is constant.
It can be the case that the feature
is constant on the train set but
how is different values on the test set.
Again, it is better to remove such
features completely since it is constant
during training.
In our dataset feature is f1.
What is the problem, actually?
For example, my new model can assign
some weight to this future, so
this future will be a part of the
prediction formula, and this formula will
be completely unreliable for the objects
with the new values of that feature.
For example, for
the last row in our data set.
J row, even if categorical feature is not
constant on the train path but there were
values that present only in the test data,
we need to handle this situation properly.
We need to decide,
do these new values matter much or not?
For example, we can simulate this
situation with a validation set and
compare the quality of the predictions
on the objects with the syn
feature values and
objects with the new feature values.
Maybe we will decide to remove
the feature or maybe we will decide to
create a separate model for
the object with a new feature values.
Sometimes there are duplicated
numerical features that these two
columns are completely identical.
In our example data set,
these columns f2 and f3.
Obviously, we should leave only one of
those two features since the other one
will not give any new information to the
model and will only slow down training.
From a number of features, it's easy
to check if two columns are the same.
We just can compare them element wise.
We can also have duplicated
categorical features.
The problem is that the features
can be identical but
their levels have different names.
That is it can be possible to rename
levels of one of the features and
two columns will become identical.
For example features f4 and f5.
If we rename levels of the feature f5,
C to A, A to B, and B to C.
The result will look
exactly as feature f4.
But how do we find such
duplicated features?
Fortunately, it's quite easy,
it will take us only one more
line of code to find them.
We need to label and code all
the categorical features first, and
then compare them as if they were numbers.
The most important part
here is label encoding.
We need to do it right.
We need to encode the features
from top to bottom so
that the first unique value we see gets
label 1, the second gets 2 and so on.
For example for feature f4,
we will encode A with 1,
B with 2 and C with 3.
Now feature f5 will encode
it differently C will be 1,
A will be 2 and B will be 3.
But after such encodings columns f4 and
f5 turn out to be identical and
we can remove one of them.
Another important thing
to check is if there
are any duplicated rows in the train and
test.
Is to write a lot of duplicated rows
that also have different target,
it can be a sign the competition
will be more like a roulette,
and our validation will be different
to public leader board score, and
private standing will be rather random.
Another possibility, duplicated rows
can just be the result of a mistake.
There was a competition where
one row was repeated 100,000
times in the training data set.
I'm not sure if it was intentional or
not, but it was necessary
to remove those duplicated rows to
have a high score on the test set.
Anyway, it's better to explain
it to ourselves why do we
observe such duplicated rows?
This is a part of data
understanding in fact.
We should also check if train and
test have common rows.
Sometimes it can tell us something
about data set generation process.
And again we should probably think what
could be the reason for those duplicates?
Another thing we can do,
we can set labels manually for
the test rows that
are present in the train set.
Finally, it is very useful to check
that the data set is shuffled,
because if it is not then, there is
a high chance to find data leakage.
We'll have a special topic about
date leakages later, but for
now we'll just discuss
that the data is shuffled.
What we can do is we can plug a feature or
target vector versus row index.
We can optionally smooth
the values using running average.
On this slide rolling target
value from pairs competition
is plotted while mean target value
is shown with dashed blue line.
If the data was shuffled properly we
would expect some kind of oscillation
of the target values around
the mean target value.
But in this case, it looks like
the end of the train set is much
different to the start,
and we have some patterns.
Maybe the information from this particular
plot will not advance our model.
But once again,
we should find an explanation for
all extraordinary things we observe.
Maybe eventually, we will find something
that will lead us to the first place.
Finally, I want to encourage
you one more time to
visualize every possible
thing in a dataset.
Visualizations will lead
you to magic features.
So this is the last slide for this lesson.
Hope you've learned something new and
excited about it.
Here's a whole list of
topics we've discussed.
You can pause this video and
try to remember what we were
talking about and where.
See you later.
[MUSIC]